---
title: "Cisplatin (Weekly) and Fluorouracil"
description: "Information extracted from PIL-0104.2 - Cisplatin (Weekly) and Fluorouracil Continuous Infusion and SC Trastuzumab.pdf"
slug: "pil-01042---cisplatin-weekly-and-fluorouracil-continuous-infusion-and-sc-trastuzumab"
tags: ["pdf", "extracted", "pil-01042---cisplatin-weekly-and-fluorouracil-continuous-infusion-and-sc-trastuzumab"]
category: "patient information"
pubDate: 2025-04-18T05:46:51.378Z
draft: false
---

# Cisplatin (Weekly) and Fluorouracil

### About the treatment

Continuous Infusion and SC Trastuzumab

### Treatment details

Treatment options for particular breast cancer conditions include cisplatin (a platinum-based compound), fluorouracil (antimetabolite), and trastuzumab (monoclonal antibody). Cancer medicines are often used in combination to slow down or stop cancer cells.

- Cisplatin will be administered intravenously ~ 60 min on day 1, 8 and 15 of your 21-day-cycle.
- Trastuzumab will be administered subcutaneously ~2 to 5 min on day 1 of your 21-day-cycle.
- Fluorouracil will be administered intravenously ~ 24 hours on day 1 of your 21-day-cycle. The
- infusion may be administered using specific infusion pumps. These pumps allow you to receive

treatment at home or hospital.

- From days 2 to 21, you won’t have any anti-cancer treatment. Take this time to rest and recover.

(Except on days 8 and 15 when you will have treatment).

### Side Effects

Chemotherapy is often linked to so many side effects. While it is true that chemotherapy drugs often cause a wide range of side effects, most of these side effects are temporary and can be minimised or prevented. Remember that different drugs cause different side effects, and each person experiences different side effects to varying degrees.

### Common Side Effects

The following side effects occur in more than 10 out of every 100 people. You might have one or more of them. Patient Information Use and Disclaimer: this is not a complete list of side effects. Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances. Low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) Platelets help your blood clot, so you are at a higher risk of bleeding when your platelet count decreases. Let your oncology care team know if you have any excess bruising or bleeding, including nose bleeds, sore gums or blood in your urine or stool. Low red blood cell count (anaemia) Red blood cells (RBC) are responsible for carrying oxygen to the tissues in your body. When you have a low RBC count, you may feel tired or weak and have pale skin. Low white blood cell count (Leukopenia or Neutropenia) White blood cells (WBC) are crucial for fighting infection. While receiving treatment, your WBC count can drop, putting you at a higher risk of disease. Allergic reactions You may have an allergic reaction to this medication. Symptoms usually include rash, itching, dizziness, vomiting, shortness of breath, chest pain, sudden blood pressure changes or oedema (swelling). Diarrhoea This treatment may disturb the intestinal lining and cause loose, watery, and more frequent stools than usual. Certain medications have a higher chance of causing diarrhoea. Pain Chemotherapy can result in various physical side effects, including cramps and pain in the muscles (myalgia), joints (arthralgia) and bones (ostealgia). Pain may be mild and intermittent, or persistent and severe. Nausea and/or vomiting Every patient reacts differently to cancer medication. Many people feel nauseous, and some also experience vomiting. Nausea and vomiting can be managed or reduced with medication.

### Other Common Side Effects

- Fever
- Fatigue
- Hearing loss
- Taste changes
- Electrolyte imbalance (Monitored by specific blood tests)
- Hyperuricemia
- Muscle spasms
- Paraesthesia
- Abdominal pain
- Constipation
- Mouth sores
- Hand-foot syndrome
- Heart dysfunction (Monitored by specific tests)
- Skin & nail changes
- Kidney dysfunction (Monitored by specific blood tests)
- Eye & vision problems
- Difficulty in breathing (wheezing & cough)
- Dizziness
- Headache
- Insomnia
- Oedema
- Peripheral neuropathy
- Flu-like symptoms

Patient Information Use and Disclaimer: this is not a complete list of side effects. Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances. Hot flushes You may feel sudden warmth in the upper body, especially over the face, neck and chest. You may also feel redness and sweating. Hair loss (alopecia) This treatment causes the hair on your head and other body parts to fall. In most cases, hair loss is temporary, and hair grows back to normal after treatment. Low appetite Appetite loss or poor appetite are common side effects of cancer and its treatment. This means you may eat less than usual, not feel hungry, or feel full after eating only a tiny amount.

### Rare Side Effects

The following side effects occur in fewer than 1 out of every 100 people.

- Liver dysfunction (Monitored by specific blood tests)
- Dry mouth
- Mood changes (anxious, depressed)
- Stiff arms or legs
- Drowsiness
- Sweating
- Swollen or sore breasts
- Haemorrhoids
- Blood clots
- Injection site reactions (redness, swelling, itching, pain at the site of injection)
- Risk of second cancer
- Hypomagnesemia
- Seizures
- Euphoria
- Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome
- Heart attack

Patient Information Use and Disclaimer: this is not a complete list of side effects. Always consult your healthcare provider to ensure the information displayed on this page applies to your personal circumstances.

### Occasional Side Effects

The following side effects occur in between 1 to 10 out of every 100 people (1 - 10%) You might have one or more of them.

Tell your healthcare team about any medicines you are taking. This includes vitamins, herbal supplements, traditional Chinese medicine and over-the-counter remedies. During treatment, please do not drink the juice of the following fruits, including supplements that may contain them: grapefruit, starfruit, pomegranate and pomelo. They may interfere with the effects of drugs or cause dangerous side effects. As some treatments may weaken your immune system, avoiding raw or undercooked food such as sushi, raw meat, and runny eggs is advisable to prevent infection. Bacteria are often present in uncooked food and are usually killed by the cooking process. If your doctor determines it is safe to eat raw vegetables and fruits, they should be carefully washed. We have dietitian services that can help you plan your diet and meals. Please let a member of your healthcare team know if you are interested. This drug may harm a baby developing in the womb. It is critical not to become pregnant while having treatment and for at least six months afterwards. Before starting treatment, talk to your healthcare team about effective contraception (for both male and female part- ners). Do not breastfeed during this treatment because the drug may pass through your breast milk. You may have immunisations and vaccinations to protect your health. Please check with your healthcare team on which immunisations and vaccinations you can take, as this may vary depending on the type of cancer and treatment you are having. It is not known whether this treatment affects fertility in people. We have fertility services that can assist with family planning. Talk to your healthcare team before starting treatment if you intend to have a baby in the future. It is generally advisable to avoid alcohol while undergoing cancer treatment. Keep an active routine. Regular exercise, such as walking 30 minutes weekly, would be helpful. Food & Drink Pregnancy, Contraception and Breastfeeding Fertility Immunisations Alcohol

### Exercise

Supported by educational sponsorship by Roche National University Cancer Institute, Singapore

## How to contact your Healthcare Team

- Soon after treatment, signs of an allergic reaction include rashes, face
- swelling, dizziness, chest tightness, a fast heartbeat, or breathing difficulties.
- Symptoms of an infection include fever (temperature over 38°C), chills,

severe sore throat, wet cough (coughing up thick or green phlegm), and cloudy or foul-smelling urine.

- Signs of unusual bleeding, bruising, or dark and sticky stools.
- Feeling unwell (despite not having a fever).
- You have severe side effects.
- Your side effects aren’t getting any better.
- Your side effects are getting worse.

Chemotherapy resources: 8:30 am - 5:30 pm (Mondays - Fridays) Closed on Weekends & Public Holidays For non-operating hours, weekends, and public holidays, please go to your nearest Emergency Department. Cancer Line (+65) 9722 0569 Contact your healthcare team as soon as possible if: Seek medical attention if you develop the following:

> *Note: This document was automatically extracted from the PDF file "PIL-0104.2 - Cisplatin (Weekly) and Fluorouracil Continuous Infusion and SC Trastuzumab.pdf". Some formatting may differ from the original.*